Role Config documentation (#416)
ipdk-io/networking-recipe: docs/guides/p4-role-configuration.rst

control planes is controlled via the concept of 'roles'. A role defines a
grouping of P4 entities and P4Runtime allows a primary controller for each role.

*P4 Clients* and *controllers* are used interchangably in this context.

Stratum's role config description is protobuf based and can be found under
`stratum/public/proto/p4_role_config.proto <https://github.com/ipdk-io/stratum-dev/blob/split-arch/stratum/public/proto/p4_role_config.proto>`_.

Each controller self-defines a role name and the P4 entities that it has either
shared or exclusive write-access to. In addition, the controller configures
whether it can receive packet-in, push new pipelines etc.
Multiple controllers with same role will be arbitraged via time-based election
ID. If no role definitions are defined, the controller will assume a *default*
role, giving it unrestricted full pipeline access.

Example Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This example demonstrates two control planes (i.e., two P4 clients)
partitioning the pipeline into non-overlapping sections giving each client
exclusive access to specified P4 tables. Clients chosen for this example are
Linux Networking and IPsec.

1. Compile P4 program

> Compile the application program according to the instructions in Compiling P4

Author: Yeah, I had a problem with adding hyperlinks in rst document. The linters fail when I tried adding a link saying that I was adding a .md format style links. TBD to figure out how to insert links in future

programs guide to generate P4 artifacts for programming the pipeline.

2. Extract table IDs
From the P4 artifact `p4info.txt`, extract P4 table IDs. A helper script is
provided to assist in extracting all table IDs from the provided input file.

> Each P4 client will need its own role configuration, so run the script twice to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each P4 client will need its own role configuration, so run the script once for each of them.
```

Following shows table IDs with comments added showing table name for clarity.

.. code-block:: text

   $ cat /usr/share/stratum/ovs_p4rt_role_config.pb.txt

   exclusive_p4_ids: 41667918  // table ID for linux_networking_control.ipv4_lpm_root_lut
   exclusive_p4_ids: 43524029  // table ID fro linux_networking_control.ipv6_lpm_root_lut
   exclusive_p4_ids: 40980035  // table ID for linux_networking_control.vxlan_decap_mod_table
   exclusive_p4_ids: 37624107  // table ID for linux_networking_control.vxlan_decap_and_push_vlan_mod_table
   exclusive_p4_ids: 42605135  // table ID for linux_networking_control.rif_mod_table_start
   ...
   receives_packet_ins: false
   can_push_pipeline: true

.. code-block:: text

   $ cat /usr/share/stratum/ipsec_role_config.pb.txt

   exclusive_p4_ids: 48773578  // table ID for MainControlDecrypt.lem_exception
   exclusive_p4_ids: 38116127  // table ID for MainControlDecrypt.lem_clear
   exclusive_p4_ids: 45068641  // table ID for MainControlDecrypt.ipsec_rx_sa_classification_table
   exclusive_p4_ids: 41233864  // table ID for crypto_tunnel_control.ipsec_rx_post_decrypt_table
   ...
   receives_packet_ins: false
   can_push_pipeline: false

> 4. Connect P4 client to infrap4d

Reviewer: ditto

Once the configuration is complete, the P4 clients will push a role name and

> the role configuration file to infrap4d with a `MasterArbitrationUpdate` message

Reviewer: ```text
the role configuration file to infrap4d with a ``MasterArbitrationUpdate`` message
```

after the gRPC connection is initiated.

> Your Own P4 Client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your P4 Client
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If using your own P4 client, you can set role name and pack `Any` protobuf

> message with the role configuration. Details of how to perform this are

Reviewer: `Any` is a field type, isn't it? And don't messages and fields have names? And if one "packs" a field, what's the type of the thing you're storing in the Any field.

This sentence feels somewhat vague.

Author: I didnt want to re-write or copy-paste the Stratum text here, so just left a quick note and a link to the document where Stratum documentation page shows how to pack the `Any` field. Hope this is sufficient for this document.

> available on this page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available in this document:
```
This is a reference to an external document, not a page in the user guide.

I would reserve _page_ for the latter

> https://github.com/ipdk-io/stratum-dev/blob/split-arch/stratum/public/proto/p4_role_config.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
https://github.com/ipdk-io/stratum-dev/blob/split-arch/stratum/public/proto/p4_role_config.md
```
```suggestion
https://github.com/ipdk-io/stratum-dev/blob/split-arch/stratum/public/proto/p4_role_config.md.
```
End of sentence.
